           CS330 - Prolog Programming Assignment - Fall 2016
	
DUE: 11:59PM November 7.


This assignment concerns facts and rules that might be part of a larger
(Prolog-style) system for students (proposed) academic schedules. 

FACTS:

For each student there will be a fact that gives a student number, major and name:

	student(12345,cs,name(bob, smith)).

For each student there will be several facts about their plan of study, such as:

	entry(12345,cs211,[fall,1998]).

Note that, for variety’s sake, dates and names are handled differently.
Also there will facts about the university's prerequisite policies, such as:

	prereq(cs211,cs330).
	coreq(phys211,phys212).

(if A and B are corequisites they MUST be taken at the same time). Further
there is a list of courses approved for each major that should appear as:

approved_list(cs,[cs211,cs330,cs450,cs480,phys211,phys212]).

You will need additional facts about how semesters are ordered; they are only
fall, spring, summer.

RULES:

You will write the following rules:

  prereq_chain(A,B)      This tests if A is a prereq of B, even indirectly.

  invalid_pair(X,A,B)    This tests if the student with number X has planned 
			 to take B, where A is a prerequisite for B, and A is 
			 not planned earlier than B or not planned at all.

  bad_course(X,A)        This tests if the X is taking an unapproved course A.

  valid_schedule(X)      This test whether student X has a valid plan.

A plan of study is valid if there are no unapproved courses and no invalid pairs.

You will need to write other auxillary rules as well. You will need some to
test the chronological order of course entries.

ASSIGNMENT: 
Generate a set of facts to test your rules. These should be of your own invention 
and should not be copied from a university catalog. You must write the rules above.
You will submit three text files to the TA (Ivan Avramovic <iavramo2@gmu.edu>).
Your facts, your rules, and a text file.  The last text file will give at least 
10 queries that demonstrate the range of queries that are possible.
You should briefly annotate each query to indicate what the corresponding query
would be in english. If there is something the TA needs to know to run your code
(on Zeus) you should mention that too.

GRADING: 
You will create your own facts, that will adequately test the rules.
Your queries must be varied. 
You will be graded on completeness, correctness, your facts and your queries.
We will test your code on our own facts as well.


HELP: You may get help from anyone with Prolog, but write the assignment yourself. 
This pertains to creating the facts, rules, and queries.  See the 
CS Department honor policy on projects on the the department's webpage.


PREPARING:  Study Appendix A the text.  
First try just starting and stopping (see table below). 

Files: Before entering a Prolog session, create a file (using any editor) that
contains the facts and rules you wish to test. Start with simple predicates.  
  Avoid blanks between the predicate and the left parenthesis 
  Start variable names with Capitals. 
  Start predicates, facts and data names with lower case letters. 
  Don't forget the period at the end of facts and rules (and queries). 

Starting:  At the Unix prompt, type the Unix command "prolog" to start
interacting with the Quintus Prolog interpreter on the GMU server.  To load 
your facts and/or rules from a file called file1 into the session, type 
[file1].  ending with a period.  If you entered Prolog while not in the
directory containing the file, give the full path, within single quotes: 
['pro/file1']. (You can also use the consult() command as described in the 
text.) You can load two files at once, like this: [factfile, rulefile]. If 
you unintentionally hit the <return> key without the period, just type a 
period and another <return>.  After loading your file(s), type in queries and
you'll get the answers.

Stopping:  Before you start anything, know how to stop it! To halt a Prolog 
session, use halt. which is a Prolog predicate with no arguments, with the 
side-effect of exiting Prolog.  To stop an unresponsive Prolog process that
may be in an infinite loop, use <control-c>  a .

Tracing:  For debugging, you can have the Prolog processor trace the steps by 
which it reached its conclusions.  This can get pretty complex, though, so you
may want to turn it off.  To start the process type trace. and to turn it off,
use notrace.

Online help: To get Prolog help, type the special predicate help. which tells 
you about the special predicate manual(...).  You can also search Google for 
Quintus Prolog.